Add EL9 & EL8 repos for enabling and syncing (#1889)
theforeman/foreman-documentation: guides/common/modules/proc_enabling-the-satellite-tools-repository.adoc

= Enabling the {project-client-name} Repository

The {project-client-name} repository provides the `katello-agent`, `katello-host-tools`, and `puppet` packages for clients registered to {ProjectServer}.
Select the applicable operating system and version to enable the client repository.

* xref:#enabling-repos-rhel-9[{RHEL} 9]
* xref:#enabling-repos-rhel-8[{RHEL} 8]

== [[enabling-repos-rhel-9]]{RHEL} 9

> To use the CLI instead of the {ProjectWebUI}, see the xref:CLI_Enabling_the_Client_Repository_rhel_9{context}[].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use the CLI instead of the {ProjectWebUI}, see the xref:CLI_Enabling_the_Client_Repository_rhel_9_{context}[].
```

= Enabling the {project-client-name} Repository

The {project-client-name} repository provides the `katello-agent`, `katello-host-tools`, and `puppet` packages for clients registered to {ProjectServer}.

> It is recommended to enable the repositories for all {RHEL} versions that you need to manage hosts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{Team} recommends to enable the repositories for all {RHEL} versions that you need to manage hosts.
```

> It is recommended to enable the repositories for all {RHEL} versions to manage the hosts without any issues.

Reviewer: Can someone please confirm this recommendation? Why not recommend "only enable/sync repos for OS you actually need/use"?

Author: > Additionally, the user should enable the repo for each RHEL version, which the hosts he intends to manage may have. You should mention this.

Addressing this comment from @Lennonka here.

Reviewer 2: I actually meant the same thing as Max suggests. How about:
```suggestion
It is recommended to enable the repositories for all {RHEL} versions that you need to manage hosts.
```

Author: Addressed :+1:

> Continue with a procedure below according to the operating system version, for which you want to enable the client repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Continue with a procedure below according to the operating system version, for which you want to enable the {project-client-name} repository.
```

.Procedure
. In the {ProjectWebUI}, navigate to *Content* > *Red Hat Repositories*.
. In the Available Repositories pane, enable the *Recommended Repositories* to get the list of repositories.
. Click *{Team} {project-client-name} for RHEL 9 x86_64 (RPMs)* to expand the repository set.

> . For the *x86_64*, click the *+* icon to enable the repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. For *x86_64*, click the *+* icon to enable the repository.
```

or

```suggestion
. For the *x86_64* architecture, click the *+* icon to enable the repository.
```

+
If the *{project-client-name}* items are not visible, it may be because they are not included in the Red{nbsp}Hat Subscription Manifest obtained from the Customer Portal.
To correct that, log in to the Customer Portal, add these repositories, download the Red{nbsp}Hat Subscription Manifest and import it into {Project}.

Enable the {project-client-name} repository for every supported major version of {RHEL} running on your hosts.
After enabling a Red Hat repository, a Product for this repository is automatically created.

> [id="CLI_Enabling_the_Client_Repository_rhel_9{context}"]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[id="CLI_Enabling_the_Client_Repository_rhel_9_{context}"]
```

.CLI procedure
* Enable the {project-client-name} repository using the `hammer repository-set enable` command:
+
[options="nowrap" subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
# hammer repository-set enable \

> --basearch='x86_64' \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
--basearch="x86_64" \
```

> --name '{Team} {project-client-name} for RHEL 9 x86_64 (RPMs)' \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
--name "{Team} {project-client-name} for RHEL 9 x86_64 (RPMs)" \
```

--organization _"My_Organization"_ \

> --product '{RHEL} for x86_64'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
--product "{RHEL} for x86_64"
```

----

== [[enabling-repos-rhel-8]]{RHEL} 8

> To use the CLI instead of the {ProjectWebUI}, see the xref:CLI_Enabling_the_Client_Repository_rhel_8{context}[].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use the CLI instead of the {ProjectWebUI}, see the xref:CLI_Enabling_the_Client_Repository_rhel_8_{context}[].
```

ifeval::["{mode}" == "disconnected"]
.Prerequisites
* Ensure that you import all content ISO images that you require into {ProjectServer}.
endif::[]

.Procedure
. In the {ProjectWebUI}, navigate to *Content* > *Red Hat Repositories*.
. In the Available Repositories pane, enable the *Recommended Repositories* to get the list of repositories.
. Click *{Team} {project-client-name} for RHEL 8 x86_64 (RPMs)* to expand the repository set.

> . For the *x86_64*, click the *+* icon to enable the repository.

Reviewer: same as above.

+
If the *{project-client-name}* items are not visible, it may be because they are not included in the Red{nbsp}Hat Subscription Manifest obtained from the Customer Portal.
To correct that, log in to the Customer Portal, add these repositories, download the Red{nbsp}Hat Subscription Manifest and import it into {Project}.

Enable the {project-client-name} repository for every supported major version of {RHEL} running on your hosts.
After enabling a Red Hat repository, a Product for this repository is automatically created.

> [id="CLI_Enabling_the_Client_Repository_rhel_8{context}"]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[id="CLI_Enabling_the_Client_Repository_rhel_8_{context}"]
```

.CLI procedure
* Enable the {project-client-name} repository using the `hammer repository-set enable` command:
+
[options="nowrap" subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
# hammer repository-set enable \

> --basearch='x86_64' \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
--basearch="x86_64" \
```

> --name '{Team} {project-client-name} for RHEL 8 x86_64 (RPMs)' \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
--name "{Team} {project-client-name} for RHEL 8 x86_64 (RPMs)" \
```

--organization _"My_Organization"_ \

> --product '{RHEL} for x86_64'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
--product "{RHEL} for x86_64"
```

Enable the {project-client-name} repository for every supported major version of {RHEL} running on your hosts.
After enabling a Red Hat repository, a Product for this repository is automatically created.

[id="CLI_Enabling_the_Client_Repository_rhel_9_{context}"]
.CLI procedure for {RHEL} 9
* Enable the {project-client-name} repository using the `hammer repository-set enable` command:
+
[options="nowrap" subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
# hammer repository-set enable \
--basearch="x86_64" \
--name "{Team} {project-client-name} for RHEL 9 x86_64 (RPMs)" \
--organization _"My_Organization"_ \
--product "{RHEL} for x86_64"
----

[id="CLI_Enabling_the_Client_Repository_rhel_8_{context}"]
.CLI procedure for {RHEL} 8
* Enable the {project-client-name} repository using the `hammer repository-set enable` command:
+
[options="nowrap" subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
# hammer repository-set enable \
--basearch="x86_64" \
--name "{Team} {project-client-name} for RHEL 8 x86_64 (RPMs)" \
--organization _"My_Organization"_ \
--product "{RHEL} for x86_64"
----

== [[enabling-repos-rhel7-rhel6]]{RHEL} 7 & {RHEL} 6

[NOTE]
====

> You will require *{RHEL} Extended Life Cycle Support (ELS) Add-on* to enable the repositories in the older versions of RHEL.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You will require *{RHEL} Extended Life Cycle Support (ELS) Add-on* to enable the repositories of older versions of RHEL.
```

For more information, see https://www.redhat.com/en/resources/els-datasheet[Extended Life Cycle Support (ELS) Add-on] guide for {RHEL}.
====

To use the CLI instead of the {ProjectWebUI}, see the xref:CLI_Enabling_the_Client_Repository_rhel_7_{context}[] or xref:CLI_Enabling_the_Client_Repository_rhel_6_{context}[].

ifeval::["{mode}" == "disconnected"]
.Prerequisites
* Ensure that you import all content ISO images that you require into {ProjectServer}.
endif::[]
.Procedure
. In the {ProjectWebUI}, navigate to *Content* > *Red Hat Repositories*.
. In the Available Repositories pane, enable the *Recommended Repositories* to get the list of repositories.
. In the Available Repositories pane, click on *{project-client-name} (for RHEL 7 Server) (RPMs)* or *{project-client-name} (for RHEL 6 Server - ELS) (RPMs)* to expand the repository set.
+
If the *{project-client-name}* items are not visible, it may be because they are not included in the Red{nbsp}Hat Subscription Manifest obtained from the Customer Portal.
To correct that, log in to the Customer Portal, add these repositories, download the Red{nbsp}Hat Subscription Manifest and import it into {Project}.

> . For *x86_64* architecture, click the *Enable* icon to enable the repository.

Author: Difficult from here but took from above.

Enable the {project-client-name} repository for every supported major version of {RHEL} running on your hosts.
After enabling a Red Hat repository, a Product for this repository is automatically created.

[id="CLI_Enabling_the_Client_Repository_rhel_9_{context}"]
.CLI procedure for {RHEL} 9
* Enable the {project-client-name} repository using the `hammer repository-set enable` command:
+
[options="nowrap" subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
# hammer repository-set enable \
--basearch="x86_64" \
--name "{Team} {project-client-name} for RHEL 9 x86_64 (RPMs)" \
--organization _"My_Organization"_ \
--product "{RHEL} for x86_64"
----

[id="CLI_Enabling_the_Client_Repository_rhel_8_{context}"]
.CLI procedure for {RHEL} 8
* Enable the {project-client-name} repository using the `hammer repository-set enable` command:
+
[options="nowrap" subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
# hammer repository-set enable \
--basearch="x86_64" \
--name "{Team} {project-client-name} for RHEL 8 x86_64 (RPMs)" \
--organization _"My_Organization"_ \
--product "{RHEL} for x86_64"
----

== [[enabling-repos-rhel7-rhel6]]{RHEL} 7 & {RHEL} 6

[NOTE]
====

> You will require *{RHEL} Extended Life Cycle Support (ELS) Add-on*
> to enable the repositories in the older versions of RHEL.
> For more information,
> see https://www.redhat.com/en/resources/els-datasheet[Extended Life Cycle Support (ELS) Add-on] guide for {RHEL}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You require *{RHEL} Extended Life Cycle Support (ELS) Add-on* to enable the repositories in the older versions of RHEL.
For more information, see https://www.redhat.com/en/resources/els-datasheet[Extended Life Cycle Support (ELS) Add-on] guide for {RHEL}.
```

--product "{RHEL} for x86_64"
----

[id="CLI_Enabling_the_Client_Repository_rhel_8_{context}"]
.CLI procedure for {RHEL} 8
* Enable the {project-client-name} repository using the `hammer repository-set enable` command:
+
[options="nowrap" subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
# hammer repository-set enable \
--basearch="x86_64" \
--name "{Team} {project-client-name} for RHEL 8 x86_64 (RPMs)" \
--organization _"My_Organization"_ \
--product "{RHEL} for x86_64"
----

== [[enabling-repos-rhel7-rhel6]]{RHEL} 7 & {RHEL} 6

[NOTE]
====
You require *{RHEL} Extended Life Cycle Support (ELS) Add-on* subscription to enable the repositories of {RHEL} 6.
For more information, see https://www.redhat.com/en/resources/els-datasheet[{RHEL} Extended Life Cycle Support (ELS) Add-on] guide.
====

To use the CLI instead of the {ProjectWebUI}, see the xref:CLI_Enabling_the_Client_Repository_rhel_7_{context}[] or xref:CLI_Enabling_the_Client_Repository_rhel_6_{context}[].

ifeval::["{mode}" == "disconnected"]
.Prerequisites
* Ensure that you import all content ISO images that you require into {ProjectServer}.
endif::[]
.Procedure
. In the {ProjectWebUI}, navigate to *Content* > *Red Hat Repositories*.

> . In the Available Repositories pane, enable the *Recommended Repositories* to get the list of repositories.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. In the *Available Repositories* pane, enable the *Recommended Repositories* to get the list of repositories.
```

> . In the Available Repositories pane, click on *{project-client-name} (for RHEL 7 Server) (RPMs)* or *{project-client-name} (for RHEL 6 Server - ELS) (RPMs)* to expand the repository set.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. In the *Available Repositories* pane, click on *{project-client-name} (for RHEL 7 Server) (RPMs)* or *{project-client-name} (for RHEL 6 Server - ELS) (RPMs)* to expand the repository set.
```

+
If the *{project-client-name}* items are not visible, it may be because they are not included in the Red{nbsp}Hat Subscription Manifest obtained from the Customer Portal.

> To correct that, log in to the Customer Portal, add these repositories, download the Red{nbsp}Hat Subscription Manifest and import it into {Project}.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To correct that, log in to the Customer Portal, add these repositories, download the Red{nbsp}Hat Subscription Manifest and import it into {Project}.
For more information, see {ContentManagementDocURL}Managing_Red_Hat_Subscriptions_content-management[Managing Red Hat Subscriptions] in _{ContentManagementDocTitle}_.
```
